[DOCS-3339] Add Observability Pipelines Docs (#14245)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/integrations/observability_pipelines/vector_configurations.md

    tag: Documentation
    text: Datadog Agent as a source for Vector
  - link: /agent/vector_aggregation/ 
    tag: Documentation
    text: Configure Datadog Agents to send data to Vector aggregators
---

## Overview

Vector configurations can collect, transform, and route your logs, metrics, and traces from any source to any destination. Vector is configured using a configuration file and  supports YAML, TOML, and JSON. The three main configuration components are sources, transforms, and sinks.

## Set up an example source

[Source components][1] define how Vector collects or receives data from observability data sources. 

Create a configuration file, for example,`vector.toml`. Then, add the following source example:

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "YAML" %}}

```yaml
sources:
  generate_syslog:
    type: demo_logs
    format: syslog
    count: 100
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "TOML" %}}

```toml
[sources.generate_syslog]
   type = "demo_logs"
   format = "syslog"
   count = 100
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "JSON" %}}

```json
"sources": {
    "generate_syslog": {
      "type": "demo_logs",
      "format": "syslog",
      "count": 100
    }
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

> This `source` component has a unique ID of `generate_syslog`. This unique ID is important for  transforming and routing the data with the `sink` component.

Author: ```suggestion
This `source` component has a unique ID of `generate_syslog`. This unique ID is important for transforming and routing the data with the`sink` component.
```

See all supported sources in the [sources documentation][1].

## Set up an example transform

Use the following example to define a [transform component][2] that manipulates the data collected from the `demo_logs` source.

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "YAML" %}}

```yaml
transforms:
  remap_syslog:
    inputs:
      - generate_syslog
    type: remap
    source: |2
        structured = parse_syslog!(.message)
        . = merge(., structured)
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "TOML" %}}

```toml
[transforms.remap_syslog]
   inputs = ["generate_syslog" ]
   type = "remap"
   source = """
     structured = parse_syslog!(.message)
     . = merge(., structured)
"""
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "JSON" %}}

```json
"transforms": {
    "remap_syslog": {
      "inputs": [
        "generate_syslog"
      ],
      "type": "remap",
      "source": "  structured = parse_syslog!(.message)\n  . = merge(., structured)\n"
    }
  }
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

> In this `transforms.remap_syslog` component, the `inputs` option is set to `generate_syslog`, which means it will receive events from the previously defined `generate_syslog` source. The transform's component type is `remap`.

Author: ```suggestion
In this `transforms.remap_syslog` component, the `inputs` option is set to `generate_syslog`, which means it receives events from the previously defined `generate_syslog` source. The transform's component type is `remap`.
```

This transform example showcases only a portion of Vector’s ability to shape and transform your logs, metrics, and traces. See the [Transforms documentation][2] for all supported transforms, ranging from sampling, filtering, enrichment, and more.

## Set up an example sink

With the data parsed in the `transform` component, use the following [sink][3] example to route the data to a destination. 

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "YAML" %}}

```yaml
sinks:
  emit_syslog:
    inputs:
      - remap_syslog
    type: console
    encoding:
      codec: json
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "TOML" %}}

```toml
[sinks.emit_syslog]
inputs = [ "remap_syslog" ]
type = "console"

  [sinks.emit_syslog.encoding]
  codec = "json"
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "JSON" %}}

```json
"sinks": {
    "emit_syslog": {
      "inputs": [
        "remap_syslog"
      ],
      "type": "console",
      "encoding": {
        "codec": "json"
      }
    }
}
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

> This `sink` (or destination) component has the ID of `emit_syslog`. The  `inputs` option specifies that the events generated by the `remap_syslog` transform are processed with this sink. The `encoding` option tells the sink to emit the events in JSON format.

Author: Good eye! Fixed.
